Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to begin with our basic setup.
Let's begin by setting up our file and directory structure for the project.
We won't need to fill in every single template file or that PI file.
Instead we just want to construct a basic project layout before we begin on that though.
Please keep in mind two things.
It's going to be very easy to make small typos or errors as you follow along.
That could potentially break the entire website.
So please make sure you run our provided code first before posting to the Q&A forums.
One of the most common errors during this part of the Course is a small typo that will break a view
which in turn breaks a template and suddenly your whole Web site's not working.
Remember we have all the provided code for you to reference so you can easily fix those typos.
So please check on the provided code first before posting.
In case the Web site's not working when you're following along.
Now let's talk about our general project organization.
We're going to think of this entire web application as having three main components.
We're going to have our core components the components related to the users who are actually logging
in and then the components related to the blog posts themselves.
And if we think about the project views that we're going to have we basically attach them to one of
these components.
So we're going to have two views attached to the core components that's going to be our index view or
basically the homepage and that in full view the about the company page and you could keep on adding
core views that don't really have anything to do with users or blog posts.
We can think of those views as just things have to do with an overall company scale because remember
we're kind of treating this as a company blog post web site.
So we have these core aspects which just have to do with company themselves.
Then we'll move on to the second component which is the user component and users those are going to
have views related to registering a user and then logging in and logging out as a user.
Then we'll add the ability to have an account page for the user that if you're viewing it as you're
logged in you'll be able to update your information.
Then we'll also have a page for users to view all their user posts that way if you click on someone's
page and you're not logged in and it's someone else's page then you can see all the posts particular
user has created.
Then the third component is the blog post component here.
We're going to keep it simple.
We're just going to be able to create update and delete blog posts as well as just having a view for
the blog post itself.
This brings us to models and as far as models are concerned it's actually pretty straightforward and
quite simple.
We really just need two models one to represent the users and one to represent the blog posts.
The users are going to have a primary ID.
That way we can uniquely identify each user and our system will also have the ability for a user to
have a profile image and we'll talk about uploading images and actually handling image files a flask
later on then we'll also be able to attach an e-mail to the user a username and then a password.
And remember we're going to be hash in that password as we discussed earlier and then we'll also have
posts.
So each user can have a multitude of posts.
And because of that we're also going to be a model for blog posts blog posts are going to have an ID.
So a unique identifier per blog post.
Then they're also going to have a user ID which connects them to the user.
Then they'll have a day a title and then the actual text of the blog post.
So keep in mind these models are actually going to be connected because the blog post has a user ID
which links it to a particular user.
That way we can click on a user and see all the blog posts that they've created.
So after that we're going to need to create some templates and forms so we'll need to create the basic
crud or create read update and delete forms for both users and blog posts.
We want to have the ability for creating a new user and updating a new user as well as creating blog
posts Update blog posts or deleting blog posts.
So once we have that we'll later on create the templates that correspond to views and we're going to
be building these slowly as we go along.
So let's get started by hopping over to our text editor and setting up the basic directory structure.
All right here we are at the Adam text editor.
Right now I have an empty directory called flask underscore examples the same directory I've been using
just on my desktop.
And what I'm going to do is create a new file so go file new file and this one is going to be called
app dot pi.
So that's our main application and we can zoom in if we want here basically what this is going to do
is it's just going to have the main components of our application and we'll be using a blueprint structure
that way not everything goes into this app that py file.
So for now I'm going to say print's Hello world.
Save that and let me make sure that everything's running.
So underneath flask examples I'm going to say python app thought pie hit enter and you should see now.
Hello world.
Have you done that.
Everything's good.
Now we're going to do is set up the rest of everything.
So I'm going to create a new folder at the same level of this app top pie.
And technically you can call this whatever we want.
So I'm just going to call it puppy company blog.
Enter And again this is the main folder that's going to hold everything.
And here we're going to set up our directories.
So remember we have three main components to our overall project.
We have the blog posts the core components that is things like the index page and the about me or info
page.
And then we have the users.
So let's create a folder directory underneath Papy company block for each of those.
So create a folder I'll call it users.
And now I can expand that a users I'll create in other folder.
This one's going to be called blog posts.
So it's going to hold everything regarding blog posts and then we'll create one more folder here and
then this is going to be called core.
So I have blog posts core end users and these are all going to connect eventually of blueprints to our
app that PI file which runs a flask application for each of these blog posts core and users.
We're going to need to do is set up the forms and views.
And since we're going to actually be importing these into our app that pie.
We also need to set up an in at that pie file for each of these.
So for each of these one I'm going to do is say new file and make sure you write this carefully it's
underscore underscore I and I-T underscore underscore dot pie.
So we're going to create these underscore underscore in an underscore underscore that PI files in order
to make sure that we can successfully import all of these components.
So we're going to this for all of these and again if you ever get stuck or get confused you can always
reference our files.
So one more here underneath users.
And this is just so we can make sure that we can import these into other components or app that py file.
So Python needs this in order to understand that this is a module that it can import.
Once you've done that we can begin to set up more specific structures.
So we'll start off with core so core itself we can just add in a viewed up-I file.
So say core views up.
And this is going to have two views in it.
The home view and the info view.
So that's all that's going to have.
And then underneath block posts we're going to do is also set up a similar thing.
We're going to say block post new file views that pie hit enter and for the blog posts themselves we're
also going to create a form stop PI file because we want to be able to create a form a blog.
So say new file and call this forms.
PI.
OK so blocked posts is actually done.
These are the three files that are going to be here in it.
Up-I is essentially going to be empty.
Just lets Python know that we can import this as a module and then we have forms and views core core
is just the main page.
So it doesn't really need any specialized forms that go with it since you're not filling anything out
on that home page users.
That definitely needs its own views so say new file views that pie hit enter and what users is also
going to have is a special form stopped by a file.
So I'll say forms that pie and that's going to allow us to create users or up that users through the
use of forms later on or to add another file called Picture handler to this user's folder.
And that's going to allow us to handle the profile picture aspect of the actual user power.
Now we can just forget about that and leave it blank or just not include it because we want to build
this up step by step.
So we have if we take a look blog posts core end users ready to go.
All right so we have three main components that up the block.
First the core and the users we're going to add in still a couple of more directories just for organizational
structure underneath puppy company blog.
I'm going to create a new folder called error underscore pages and that's going to be at the rectory
that's going to have a specialized PI file which is going to show views for things like four or four
pages and we'll talk about later on how to set that up.
Right now I just wanted directory there organization then I'm also going to set up a directory to hold
our actual template files.
So we're going to say templates and we're just going to put every template into this templates folder
right here.
So as we go along we'll be adding more h to him all files there.
And then finally most larger projects have the use of static files.
So there's going to be a holding place for your CSSA files or javascript files.
And for our case we're also going to have our profile images stored there.
So we're going to say one more folder.
We'll call it static and we'll have that all underneath Papy company blog.
So we have that all ready to go.
The final thing we're going to do is add in a file called models not pi.
And that's again underneath puppie company blog.
So notice how this is formatted here models that pie here is going to hold our user model and our blog
post model.
All right.
Now the last thing we're going to do is actually make sure that we can run a very simple web application
so to do that what we're going to do is set up kind of a hello world situation.
And in order to make sure we keep our project organized underneath puppy company blog I'm going to create
one more file will say new file and this is going to be underscore underscore in its underscore underscore
that pi and this init pile init file Scuse me right here underneath Papy company blog.
That's going to hold a lot of our organizational logic connecting the blueprints connecting the logging
manager and connecting everything together that's going to help us organize things so that when we actually
run our app that pie the app thought py files actually just has like one line it'll say from puppy company
blog import the app and then run the app.
So let's see how this is actually going to work.
I'm going to close all these other tabs I have here and atom.
So right now this in it up PI this is underneath the puppy company blog.
So just to kind of write that out for you.
Let me zoom in a little more.
This is underneath puppy company blog forward slash in the pie that's the current file I'm in.
And in this file all I'm going to do is the following I will say from flask import flask and then I
will say app is equal to flask underscore name underscore underscore and we set up our application that's
actually all we're going to do here.
So I'm going to save that.
And then underneath app that pie I'm just going to run that application.
So I will say from puppy company blog import app.
So what is this line actually doing.
It's saying underneath Papy company blog.
So you say from puppy company blog it's saying from this in it py file import this application this
app right here.
So this in a file that's going to have a bunch of stuff later on.
Like setting up our database setting up or form setting up the blueprints.
But right now it's just creating the application.
So I'll come now to a public company blog import app and we'll see if name is equal to main.
Take that app and run it and we'll say debug is equal to true.
Now keep in mind right now the application doesn't really do anything but we should see kind of a non
empty web page.
It'll just be kind of a blank screen running at us.
So we have classic examples oniony are in it.
We've set up our flask application which currently has essentially no views or no templates.
And then we ran our application from this app that py file.
So kind of keep that in mind.
How are separating the components here.
So I'm going to say python app that pie run this.
And after you run this you should see that it's running.
So let's go to our browser and check out what we see.
So let me bring in my browser and if you ran everything correctly you should essentially see something
that looks like this.
Some not found your l.
So this is exactly what you want to see because this means that your application is running.
There was just no actual template for the home page view which makes sense we haven't set it up in the
court yet.
So if you are able to get this four or four page running not just some Server not found then you are
ready to go.
You've set up all directories correctly and you were able to run that application which currently has
no views and no templates which is why we get this default for 0 for error.
OK.
So as a review for what we did in this lecture we set up all the rectories were going to be filling
in a ton of more files later on as we go throughout this section of the course.
But more importantly we've separated this in PI file underneath puppie company blog which is going to
hold a lot of our flask application logic and the blueprint logic.
And then this app that file which just runs that application from that in it for pi file and this app
up pi.
This is actually not going to change for the rest of the project.
This is going to be all it's doing is just going to say import the app and then run it and it's a really
common way to structure much larger projects which is why we're seeing it here.
All right.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums but definitely take a look at the organizational
structure we have in the provided notes.
Thanks and we'll see you at the next lecture.